Day-6,july-22

Properties of background,background image,size,repeat,position

CSS provides various properties to style the background of an element, including colors, images, and gradients.

1.background properties

Property	 	Description
background		Shorthand to set multiple background properties at once.
background-color	Sets the background color.
background-image	Sets the background image.
background-size 	Specifies the size of the background image.
background-repeat	Specifies how the background image is repeated.
background-position	Specifies the starting position of the background image.

2.background-image Property
The background-image property sets an image as the background of an element.

Syntax:
background-image: url('image.jpg');

3. background-size Property
Controls the size of the background image.

Syntax:
div {
    background-image: url('example.jpg');
    background-size: contain;
}

4.background-repeat Property
Specifies how the background image is repeated.

5.background-position Property
Specifies the starting position of the background image.
Syntax:
div {
    background-image: url('example.jpg');
    background-position: center;
}


Gradient and types of gradient

Gradients create smooth transitions between colors and can be used as backgrounds.

Types of Gradients

1.Linear Gradient

Creates a gradient in a straight line.
Syntax:

background-image: linear-gradient(direction, color1, color2, ...);
Directions:
to top (default is to bottom).
to left, to right, etc.

background-image: linear-gradient(to right, red, blue);

2.Radial Gradient

Creates a gradient radiating from an origin point.
Syntax:

background-image: radial-gradient(shape size at position, color1, color2, ...);
Shapes: circle (default), ellipse.
Example:

background-image: radial-gradient(circle, yellow, green);

3.Conic Gradient (Supported in modern browsers)

Creates a gradient that rotates around a center point.
Syntax:

background-image: conic-gradient(from angle at position, color1, color2, ...);
Example:

background-image: conic-gradient(from 0deg, red, yellow, green, blue);

