Day-61,October-18th

Create form with react and store that data in database,print in console

To create a form using React and store the data in a MongoDB database, I'll guide you through setting up a React frontend and a Node.js backend. The backend will use Express.js and Mongoose to store the data in MongoDB, while the frontend will use React to collect and send data.

Steps:
Set up the React frontend to create a form and capture user input.
Set up the Node.js backend to handle the POST request and store data in MongoDB using Mongoose.
Print the data in the console both on the backend and frontend to ensure it's working correctly.

1. Create the React Frontend
First, create a React application.
-react-app react-form
cd react-form
npm start

This will set up a new React application. After it’s set up, we'll create a form to collect user data.
Creating the Form Component in React
Inside your src folder, create a new component, for example, UserForm.js.
Include the Form Component in App.js
In App.js, import and render the UserForm component.

2. Set Up the Backend (Node.js + Express + Mongoose)
Now, we will set up a backend using Express.js to handle the POST request from the React form and store the data in MongoDB using Mongoose.

Install Backend Dependencies
In your backend project folder, initialize a new Node.js project and install necessary dependencies:
mkdir backend
cd backend
npm init -y
npm install express mongoose body-parser cors
Express: Web framework for handling HTTP requests.
Mongoose: ODM to interact with MongoDB.
Body-parser: Middleware for parsing JSON request bodies.
CORS: Middleware to allow cross-origin requests from the React frontend.

Backend
Create a file called server.js for the server logic.

3. Run the Server and Frontend
Run the Backend Server:
In the backend folder, start the server:
node server.js

Run the React Frontend:
In the React project folder, run the React development server:
npm start
Now, go to http://localhost:3000 in your browser. You should see the form.